Great choice. The manual method is completely free and gives you full control while you are just starting out.

Here is your complete "Manual Newsletter" workflow.

Phase 1: Perfecting the "Subject Line"
For this to work, every email you receive must have the exact same subject line so we can filter them.

Check your Code: Ensure your templateParams in Newsletter.jsx looks like this (hardcoding the name ensures consistency):

JavaScript

const templateParams = {
  name: "New Subscriber", // This ensures the subject line is always the same
  email: email,
  message: "Please add this user to the newsletter list."
};
Check your EmailJS Template:

Go to the EmailJS Dashboard.

Open your Template.

Set the Subject field to: New message from {{name}}

Result: Every email will arrive with the subject: "New message from New Subscriber".

Phase 2: The "Bucket" (Automated Filtering)
We don't want these emails cluttering your main inbox. We want them to land in a specific folder.

Open Gmail.

In the search bar, click the Show search options icon (the sliders on the right).

In the Subject field, paste: New message from New Subscriber

Click Create filter.

Check these boxes:

Skip the Inbox (Archive it) (Optional, if you don't want a notification for every sign-up).

Apply the label: Choose "New Label..." and name it 📥 Newsletter Signups.

Click Create filter.

Now, every time someone uses your form, their email will skip your inbox and sit waiting for you in the "Newsletter Signups" folder.

Phase 3: The "Database" (Google Sheets)
Once a month (or whenever you want to send a post), you need to move the emails from Gmail to a list.

Create a new Google Sheet named "My Blog Subscribers".

Create three columns: Date Added | Email Address | Status.

The Routine:

Go to your 📥 Newsletter Signups folder in Gmail.

Open the emails.

Copy the email address.

Paste it into the Email Address column in your Sheet.

Mark Status as "Active".

Phase 4: Sending the Newsletter (The Critical Part)
When you are ready to share your latest blog post, follow these strict rules to avoid leaking private data.

Compose a new email.

To: Put your own email address here. (e.g., me@myblog.com).

BCC (Blind Carbon Copy): Click "BCC" and paste ALL the subscriber emails from your Google Sheet here.

Why? If you put them in "To" or "CC", everyone will see everyone else's private email address. This is a major privacy breach. "BCC" hides the list.

Subject: "My Latest Article: [Title]"

Body: Write your update and include the link to your blog post.

Summary Checklist
[ ] Code: templateParams updated with name: "New Subscriber".

[ ] EmailJS: Template Subject set to New message from {{name}}.

[ ] Gmail: Filter created for that subject line -> Moves to Label.

[ ] Sending: Always use BCC.
